# Technical interview

* **A question focused on reasoning through a particular subject at a broader level.** For example, your organization is going to revamp their authorization and permissions system. You can either build a solution in-house or leverage a pre-built solution. Talk me through the trade-offs of going with one or the other and what side effects you may expect. Explain to me how you’d evaluate which option is best and how you’d discuss this with your team. I would expect you to know broadly how permissions systems work, but I’m not going to deduct credit if you don’t get your acronyms perfectly comparing RBAC to ReBAC to ABAC. We would talk through build vs. buy. I’d expect you to also ask me additional questions around what’s wrong with the current auth/permissions flow and what is prompting the refactor, and also more about the current permissions system itself.
* **A system architecture question.** Similar to the above question but more focused on the actual system architecture vs. the business needs. For example, we may discuss the key components to a public API and I’d dig into how you’d think through API key generation, utilization of an API gateway, and how you approach rate limiting and keeping costs and system load in control.
* **A role play of a bad engineering or architecture plan.** Essentially you’re presented with a flawed solution to a problem—perhaps it doesn’t address the correct problem, or maybe it’s over-engineered, or maybe there are a million holes you can poke in the current plan because it lacks depth. These are common conversations you are likely having as an Engineering Manager, and I would need to know that even if you are not getting your hands on the code, you can provide tactical feedback to your team on how they can take a poorly structured plan and make it rock solid.

### References

* [Interviewing for an EM role: Technical Interviews](https://www.engineeringleadership.xyz/p/em-technical-interviews)
